README.md, before:

# Supportive Housing Of Waterloo 🏘️
Welcome to the SHOW platform repository!

## Technical Overview
**Backend Language:** Python (with Flask)<br>
**Backend API:** REST<br>
**Database:** PostgreSQL<br>
**User Auth:** Opt-in<br>
**File Storage:** Opt-in<br>

The frontend is a React application written in TypeScript.

## Table of Contents
* 📝 [Documentation](#documentation)
* 👨‍💻 [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  * 🛳️ [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  * 🔨 [Setup](#setup)
* 🧰 [Useful Commands](#useful-commands)
  * 🚙 [Database Migrations](#database-migration)
  * 🔌 [Connect To Database](#connect-to-database)
  * ♻️ [Restart Docker Containers](#restart-docker-containers)
  * 🌱 [Seeding](#seeding)
  * 👕 [Linter](#linter)
  * 🧪 [Tests](#tests)     
* 💻 [The Team](#the-team)

## Documentation

- [Starter Code](https://uwblueprint.github.io/starter-code-v2)
- [Dev Cheatsheat](https://www.notion.so/uwblueprintexecs/Dev-Cheat-Sheet-from-CAS-65c53ce229ca4e91aa3abfe2079ac383) (adapted from Children's Aid Society team)
- [Dev Guidelines](https://www.notion.so/uwblueprintexecs/Dev-Guidelines-9ebd726d5b244e2094c54e10afc7303a)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Install Docker Desktop ([MacOS](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/mac-install/) | [Windows (Home)](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/windows-install/) | [Windows (Pro, Enterprise, Education)](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/windows-install/) | [Linux](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/#server)) and ensure that it is running
- Ask the current PL to receive access to ENV Variables

### Setup
1. Clone this repository and `cd` into the project folder
```bash
git clone https://github.com/uwblueprint/supportive-housing.git
cd supportive-housing
```

2. Ensure that environment variables have been added to the following directories:
```
/.env
/frontend/.env
/seeding/.env
```

3. Run the application
```bash
docker-compose up --build
```

## Useful Commands

### Database Migration
```bash
bash ./scripts/flask-db-upgrade.sh
```

### Connect To Database 
```bash
bash ./scripts/exec-db.sh
```

### Restart Docker Containers
```bash
bash ./scripts/restart-docker.sh
```

### Seeding
Before running these scripts, remember to update the `.env` file to ensure you're configuring your data to your needs:
```bash
bash ./seeding/create-user.sh         # Create a user with a specific name and role
bash ./seeding/create-residents.sh    # Create a number of residents
bash ./seeding/create-log-records.sh  # Create a number of log records
```

### Linter 
To run the linter, use the following commands while the docker containers are running:
- Mac
  - `docker exec -it SHOW-backend /bin/bash -c "black ."`
  - `docker exec -it SHOW-frontend /bin/bash -c "yarn fix"`
- Windows
  - `docker exec -it SHOW-backend bash -c "black ."`
  - `docker exec -it SHOW-frontend bash -c "yarn fix"`

Or, if you have yarn installed locally, running `yarn fix` *should* work as well.

### Tests
```
cd e2e-tests
python3 -m pytest --lang python --auth --fs
```
## The Team
### Term 3 (F23):
**Project Lead:** Connor Bechthold<br>
**Product Managers:** Zafir Raeid<br>
**Developers:** Aathithan Chandrabalan, Daniel Kim, Kelly Pham, Kevin Pierce, Owen Sellner, Braydon Wang, Carolyn Zhang<br>
**Designers:** TBD<br>

### Term 2 (S23):
**Project Lead:** Safwaan Chowdhury<br>
**Product Managers:** Hiba Altaf<br>
**Developers:** Connor Bechthold, Helen Guan, Kelly Pham, Daniel Kim, Kevin Pierce, Owen Sellner<br>
**Designers:** Lauren Fearn, Yousuf Zia<br>

### Term 1 (W23):
**Project Lead:** Dinu Wijetunga<br>
**Product Managers:** Rachel Scott & Maitry Mistry<br>
**Developers:** Connor Bechthold, Helen Guan, Joyce Wangsa, Juthika Hoque, Kelly Pham, Safwaan Chowdhury<br>
**Designers:** Elle Luo, Serena Li<br>

Huge shoutout to the Internal Tools team for creating StarterCode v2!<br>

Commit message:

Invite user script (#199)
* add invite user script

* update README

* readme formatting

* update readme one last time

* update readme one last time

README.md, after:

# Supportive Housing Of Waterloo 🏘️
Welcome to the SHOW platform repository!

## Technical Overview
**Backend Language:** Python (with Flask)<br>
**Backend API:** REST<br>
**Database:** PostgreSQL<br>
**User Auth:** Opt-in<br>
**File Storage:** Opt-in<br>

The frontend is a React application written in TypeScript.

## Table of Contents
* 📝 [Documentation](#documentation)
* 👨‍💻 [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  * 🛳️ [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  * 🔨 [Setup](#setup)
* 🧰 [Useful Commands](#useful-commands)
  * 🚙 [Database Migrations](#database-migration)
  * 🔌 [Connect To Database](#connect-to-database)
  * ♻️ [Restart Docker Containers](#restart-docker-containers)
  * 🌱 [Seeding](#seeding)
  * 👕 [Linter](#linter)
  * 🧪 [Tests](#tests)     
* 💻 [The Team](#the-team)

## Documentation

- [Starter Code](https://uwblueprint.github.io/starter-code-v2)
- [Dev Cheatsheat](https://www.notion.so/uwblueprintexecs/Dev-Cheat-Sheet-from-CAS-65c53ce229ca4e91aa3abfe2079ac383) (adapted from Children's Aid Society team)
- [Dev Guidelines](https://www.notion.so/uwblueprintexecs/Dev-Guidelines-9ebd726d5b244e2094c54e10afc7303a)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Install Docker Desktop ([MacOS](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/mac-install/) | [Windows (Home)](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/windows-install/) | [Windows (Pro, Enterprise, Education)](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/windows-install/) | [Linux](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/#server)) and ensure that it is running
- Ask the current PL to receive access to ENV Variables

### Setup
1. Clone this repository and `cd` into the project folder
```bash
git clone https://github.com/uwblueprint/supportive-housing.git
cd supportive-housing
```

2. Ensure that environment variables have been added to the following directories:
```
/.env
/frontend/.env
/seeding/.env
```

3. Run the application
```bash
docker-compose up --build
```

4. Create an Admin user. In `seeding/.env`, ensure `FIRST_NAME`, `LAST_NAME`, and `EMAIL` are set (you should use your Blueprint email/any email you have access to here). Ensure `ROLE` is set to `Admin`. Run:
```bash
bash ./seeding/invite-user.sh
```
**IMPORTANT**: If you've reset your local DB and want to re-use an email, ensure it's deleted from Firebase as well (ask the PL for access if you don't have it)

5. Signup for an account on the app! Ensure that you use the values you used in Step 3. Your password can be anything you remember

6. Verify your email address. You should receive an email in your inbox with a link - once you click the link, you're good to freely use the app! You can invite any other users through the `Employee Directory` within the `Admin Controls`

## Useful Commands

### Database Migration
```bash
bash ./scripts/flask-db-upgrade.sh
```

### Connect To Database 
```bash
bash ./scripts/exec-db.sh
```

### Restart Docker Containers
```bash
bash ./scripts/restart-docker.sh
```

### Seeding
Before running these scripts, remember to update the `.env` file to ensure you're configuring your data to your needs:
```bash
bash ./seeding/create-residents.sh    # Create a number of residents
bash ./seeding/create-log-records.sh  # Create a number of log records
```

### Linter 
To run the linter, use the following commands while the docker containers are running:
- Mac
  - `docker exec -it SHOW-backend /bin/bash -c "black ."`
  - `docker exec -it SHOW-frontend /bin/bash -c "yarn fix"`
- Windows
  - `docker exec -it SHOW-backend bash -c "black ."`
  - `docker exec -it SHOW-frontend bash -c "yarn fix"`

Or, if you have yarn installed locally, running `yarn fix` *should* work as well.

### Tests
```
cd e2e-tests
python3 -m pytest --lang python --auth --fs
```
## The Team
### Term 3 (F23):
**Project Lead:** Connor Bechthold<br>
**Product Managers:** Zafir Raeid<br>
**Developers:** Aathithan Chandrabalan, Daniel Kim, Kelly Pham, Kevin Pierce, Owen Sellner, Braydon Wang, Carolyn Zhang<br>
**Designers:** TBD<br>

### Term 2 (S23):
**Project Lead:** Safwaan Chowdhury<br>
**Product Managers:** Hiba Altaf<br>
**Developers:** Connor Bechthold, Helen Guan, Kelly Pham, Daniel Kim, Kevin Pierce, Owen Sellner<br>
**Designers:** Lauren Fearn, Yousuf Zia<br>

### Term 1 (W23):
**Project Lead:** Dinu Wijetunga<br>
**Product Managers:** Rachel Scott & Maitry Mistry<br>
**Developers:** Connor Bechthold, Helen Guan, Joyce Wangsa, Juthika Hoque, Kelly Pham, Safwaan Chowdhury<br>
**Designers:** Elle Luo, Serena Li<br>

Huge shoutout to the Internal Tools team for creating StarterCode v2!<br>
